README.md, before:

# PHP Bootstrap (base / project skeleton)
 
[![Latest Version on Packagist][ico-version]][link-packagist]
[![Software License][ico-license]][link-license]
[![Build Status][ico-travis]][link-travis]
[![Quality Score][ico-code-quality]][link-code-quality]
[![Total Downloads][ico-downloads]][link-downloads]
 
## Introduction 

This is a repository intended to serve as a starting point if you want to bootstrap a project in PHP. This repository has been explained in the [CodelyTV video "Introducción a PHP: Cómo configurar tu entorno de desarrollo 🐘" (Spanish)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v2IjMrpZog4).
 
It could be useful if you want to start from scratch a kata or a little exercise or project. The idea is that you don't have to worry about the boilerplate, just run `composer create-project codelytv/php-bootstrap your-project-name` and there you go:
* Latest versions of PHP and PHPUnit
* Best practices applied:
  * [`README.md`][link-readme] (badges included)
  * [`LICENSE`][link-license]
  * [`composer.json`][link-composer-json]
  * [`phpunit.xml`][link-phpunit]
  * [`.gitignore`][link-gitignore]
  * [`.editorconfig`][link-editorconfig]
  * [`.travis.yml`][link-travis-yml]
  * [`.scrutinizer.yml`][link-scrutinizer]
* Some useful resources to start coding

## How To Start

You have 2 different alternatives: Using our [Packagist project](https://packagist.org/packages/codelytv/php-bootstrap) with Composer, or manually cloning [this repo](https://github.com/CodelyTV/php-bootstrap/):

### Using Composer

Start completely from scratch without having to delete this bootstrap project Git history:

1. If you don't have it already, [install Composer](https://getcomposer.org/download/).
2. Create your project based on the [Packagist project](https://packagist.org/packages/codelytv/php-bootstrap). This will also download the project dependencies: `composer create-project codelytv/php-bootstrap your-project-name`.
3. Move to the project directory: `cd your-project-name`
4. Run all the checks: `composer test`. This will do some checks that you can perform with isolated commands: 
    1. [PHP Parallel Lint](https://github.com/JakubOnderka/PHP-Parallel-Lint): `composer lint`.
    2. [PHP Style Check](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer): `composer style`. If you want to fix style issues automatically: `composer fix-style`.
    3. [PHP Unit](https://phpunit.de/): `composer phpunit`.
5. Create your own repository:
    1. Initialize your own Git repository: `git init`
    2. Add the bootstrap files: `git add .`
    3. Commit: `git commit -m "Initial commit with project boilerplate based on https://github.com/CodelyTV/php-bootstrap"`
    4. Add your remote repository: `git remote add origin git@github.com:your-username/your-project-name`
    5. Upload your local commits to the new remote repo: `git push -u origin master`
6. Start coding! 

### Cloning the repository 

Just in case you prefer to avoid dealing with `composer create-project`, you can also clone this repository. We recommend to follow the next step by step process in order to avoid adding the bootstrap project commits to your project Git history:

1. Clone this repository: `git clone https://github.com/CodelyTV/php-bootstrap your-project-name`
2. Move to the project directory: `cd your-project-name`
3. If you don't have it already, [install Composer](https://getcomposer.org/download/).
4. Install the project dependencies: `composer install`
5. Run all the checks: `composer test`. This will do some checks that you can perform with isolated commands: 
    1. [PHP Parallel Lint](https://github.com/JakubOnderka/PHP-Parallel-Lint): `composer lint`.
    2. [PHP Style Check](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer): `composer style`. If you want to fix style issues automatically: `composer fix-style`.
    3. [PHP Unit](https://phpunit.de/): `composer phpunit`.
6. Create your own repository cleaning the bootstrap project history:
    1. Remove previous Git history in order to do not add the bootstrap repo noise in your project: `rm -rf .git`
    2. Initialize your own Git repository: `git init`
    3. Add the bootstrap files: `git add .`
    4. Commit: `git commit -m "Initial commit with project boilerplate based on https://github.com/CodelyTV/php-bootstrap"`
    5. Add your remote repository: `git remote add origin git@github.com:your-username/your-project-name`
    6. Upload your local commits to the new remote repo: `git push -u origin master`
7. Start coding!

## Helpful resources

### PHP 7

* [PHP 7 new features](http://php.net/manual/en/migration70.new-features.php)
* [Scalar type declarations example](https://github.com/tpunt/PHP7-Reference#scalar-type-declarations)
* [Return type declarations example](https://github.com/tpunt/PHP7-Reference#return-type-declarations)

### PHPUnit

* [Introduction to writing tests for PHPUnit](https://phpunit.de/manual/current/en/writing-tests-for-phpunit.html)
* [Testing exceptions with PHPUnit](https://phpunit.de/manual/current/en/writing-tests-for-phpunit.html#writing-tests-for-phpunit.exceptions)
* [PHPUnit assertions](https://phpunit.de/manual/current/en/appendixes.assertions.html)

### Refactoring

* [Refactoring.guru Code Smells catalog](https://refactoring.guru/smells/smells)
* [Refactoring.guru Refactorings catalog](https://refactoring.guru/catalog)
* [SourceMaking Refactorings catalog](https://sourcemaking.com/refactoring)
* [Martin Fowler Refactorings catalog](http://refactoring.com/catalog/)
* [CodelyTV Refactoring videos (Spanish)](http://codely.tv/tag/refactoring/)

## Other programming languages

* [PHP](https://github.com/CodelyTV/php-bootstrap)
* [Scala](https://github.com/CodelyTV/scala_bootstrap)

## About

This hopefully helpful utility has been developed by [CodelyTV][link-author] and [contributors][link-contributors].

We'll try to maintain this project as simple as possible, but Pull Requests are welcomed!

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File][link-license] for more information.

[ico-version]: https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/codelytv/php-bootstrap.svg?style=flat-square
[ico-license]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square
[ico-travis]: https://img.shields.io/travis/CodelyTV/php-bootstrap/master.svg?style=flat-square
[ico-code-quality]: https://img.shields.io/scrutinizer/g/CodelyTV/php-bootstrap.svg?style=flat-square
[ico-downloads]: https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/codelytv/php-bootstrap.svg?style=flat-square

[link-packagist]: https://packagist.org/packages/codelytv/php-bootstrap
[link-license]: LICENSE
[link-travis]: https://travis-ci.org/CodelyTV/php-bootstrap
[link-code-quality]: https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/CodelyTV/php-bootstrap
[link-downloads]: https://packagist.org/packages/codelytv/php-bootstrap
[link-readme]: README.md
[link-composer-json]: composer.json
[link-phpunit]: phpunit.xml
[link-gitignore]: .gitignore
[link-editorconfig]: .editorconfig    
[link-travis-yml]: .travis.yml           
[link-scrutinizer]: .scrutinizer.yml  
[link-author]: https://github.com/CodelyTV
[link-contributors]: ../../contributors

Commit message:

Update README.md to include Docker instructions

README.md, after:

# PHP Bootstrap (base / project skeleton)
 
[![Latest Version on Packagist][ico-version]][link-packagist]
[![Software License][ico-license]][link-license]
[![Build Status][ico-travis]][link-travis]
[![Quality Score][ico-code-quality]][link-code-quality]
[![Total Downloads][ico-downloads]][link-downloads]
 
## Introduction 

This is a repository intended to serve as a starting point if you want to bootstrap a project in PHP. This repository has been explained in the [CodelyTV video "Introducción a PHP: Cómo configurar tu entorno de desarrollo 🐘" (Spanish)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v2IjMrpZog4).
 
It could be useful if you want to start from scratch a kata or a little exercise or project. The idea is that you don't have to worry about the boilerplate, just run `composer create-project codelytv/php-bootstrap your-project-name` and there you go:
* Latest versions of PHP and PHPUnit
* Best practices applied:
  * [`README.md`][link-readme] (badges included)
  * [`LICENSE`][link-license]
  * [`composer.json`][link-composer-json]
  * [`phpunit.xml`][link-phpunit]
  * [`.gitignore`][link-gitignore]
  * [`.editorconfig`][link-editorconfig]
  * [`.travis.yml`][link-travis-yml]
  * [`.scrutinizer.yml`][link-scrutinizer]
* Some useful resources to start coding

## How To Start

You have 3 different alternatives: Using our [Packagist project](https://packagist.org/packages/codelytv/php-bootstrap) with Composer, manually cloning [this repo](https://github.com/CodelyTV/php-bootstrap/)
or using Docker:

### Using Composer

Start completely from scratch without having to delete this bootstrap project Git history:

1. If you don't have it already, [install Composer](https://getcomposer.org/download/).
2. Create your project based on the [Packagist project](https://packagist.org/packages/codelytv/php-bootstrap). This will also download the project dependencies: `composer create-project codelytv/php-bootstrap your-project-name`.
3. Move to the project directory: `cd your-project-name`
4. Run all the checks: `composer test`. This will do some checks that you can perform with isolated commands: 
    1. [PHP Parallel Lint](https://github.com/JakubOnderka/PHP-Parallel-Lint): `composer lint`.
    2. [PHP Style Check](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer): `composer style`. If you want to fix style issues automatically: `composer fix-style`.
    3. [PHP Unit](https://phpunit.de/): `composer phpunit`.
5. Create your own repository:
    1. Initialize your own Git repository: `git init`
    2. Add the bootstrap files: `git add .`
    3. Commit: `git commit -m "Initial commit with project boilerplate based on https://github.com/CodelyTV/php-bootstrap"`
    4. Add your remote repository: `git remote add origin git@github.com:your-username/your-project-name`
    5. Upload your local commits to the new remote repo: `git push -u origin master`
6. Start coding! 

### Cloning the repository 

Just in case you prefer to avoid dealing with `composer create-project`, you can also clone this repository. We recommend to follow the next step by step process in order to avoid adding the bootstrap project commits to your project Git history:

1. Clone this repository: `git clone https://github.com/CodelyTV/php-bootstrap your-project-name`
2. Move to the project directory: `cd your-project-name`
3. If you don't have it already, [install Composer](https://getcomposer.org/download/).
4. Install the project dependencies: `composer install`
5. Run all the checks: `composer test`. This will do some checks that you can perform with isolated commands: 
    1. [PHP Parallel Lint](https://github.com/JakubOnderka/PHP-Parallel-Lint): `composer lint`.
    2. [PHP Style Check](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer): `composer style`. If you want to fix style issues automatically: `composer fix-style`.
    3. [PHP Unit](https://phpunit.de/): `composer phpunit`.
6. Create your own repository cleaning the bootstrap project history:
    1. Remove previous Git history in order to do not add the bootstrap repo noise in your project: `rm -rf .git`
    2. Initialize your own Git repository: `git init`
    3. Add the bootstrap files: `git add .`
    4. Commit: `git commit -m "Initial commit with project boilerplate based on https://github.com/CodelyTV/php-bootstrap"`
    5. Add your remote repository: `git remote add origin git@github.com:your-username/your-project-name`
    6. Upload your local commits to the new remote repo: `git push -u origin master`
7. Start coding!

### Using Docker

You can avoid the need of a local PHP installation using Docker.

1. You will need [Docker installed](https://docs.docker.com/install/) in your computer.
2. [Download](https://github.com/CodelyTV/php-bootstrap/archive/master.zip) this repository and unzip it in your project directory.
3. Run the script `up.sh` available in the project's root folder. The first time it will build the Docker image and download the dependencies, and you will end up in a container sharing the project folder with your local machine.
4. Run all the checks: `composer test`. This will do some checks that you can perform with isolated commands: 
    1. [PHP Parallel Lint](https://github.com/JakubOnderka/PHP-Parallel-Lint): `composer lint`.
    2. [PHP Style Check](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer): `composer style`. If you want to fix style issues automatically: `composer fix-style`.
    3. [PHP Unit](https://phpunit.de/): `composer phpunit`.
5. Create your own repository:
    1. Initialize your own Git repository: `git init`
    2. Add the bootstrap files: `git add .`
    3. Commit: `git commit -m "Initial commit with project boilerplate based on https://github.com/CodelyTV/php-bootstrap"`
    4. Add your remote repository: `git remote add origin git@github.com:your-username/your-project-name`
    5. Upload your local commits to the new remote repo: `git push -u origin master`
6. Start coding! 

## Helpful resources

### PHP 7

* [PHP 7 new features](http://php.net/manual/en/migration70.new-features.php)
* [Scalar type declarations example](https://github.com/tpunt/PHP7-Reference#scalar-type-declarations)
* [Return type declarations example](https://github.com/tpunt/PHP7-Reference#return-type-declarations)

### PHPUnit

* [Introduction to writing tests for PHPUnit](https://phpunit.de/manual/current/en/writing-tests-for-phpunit.html)
* [Testing exceptions with PHPUnit](https://phpunit.de/manual/current/en/writing-tests-for-phpunit.html#writing-tests-for-phpunit.exceptions)
* [PHPUnit assertions](https://phpunit.de/manual/current/en/appendixes.assertions.html)

### Refactoring

* [Refactoring.guru Code Smells catalog](https://refactoring.guru/smells/smells)
* [Refactoring.guru Refactorings catalog](https://refactoring.guru/catalog)
* [SourceMaking Refactorings catalog](https://sourcemaking.com/refactoring)
* [Martin Fowler Refactorings catalog](http://refactoring.com/catalog/)
* [CodelyTV Refactoring videos (Spanish)](http://codely.tv/tag/refactoring/)

## Other programming languages

* [PHP](https://github.com/CodelyTV/php-bootstrap)
* [Scala](https://github.com/CodelyTV/scala_bootstrap)

## About

This hopefully helpful utility has been developed by [CodelyTV][link-author] and [contributors][link-contributors].

We'll try to maintain this project as simple as possible, but Pull Requests are welcomed!

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File][link-license] for more information.

[ico-version]: https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/codelytv/php-bootstrap.svg?style=flat-square
[ico-license]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square
[ico-travis]: https://img.shields.io/travis/CodelyTV/php-bootstrap/master.svg?style=flat-square
[ico-code-quality]: https://img.shields.io/scrutinizer/g/CodelyTV/php-bootstrap.svg?style=flat-square
[ico-downloads]: https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/codelytv/php-bootstrap.svg?style=flat-square

[link-packagist]: https://packagist.org/packages/codelytv/php-bootstrap
[link-license]: LICENSE
[link-travis]: https://travis-ci.org/CodelyTV/php-bootstrap
[link-code-quality]: https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/CodelyTV/php-bootstrap
[link-downloads]: https://packagist.org/packages/codelytv/php-bootstrap
[link-readme]: README.md
[link-composer-json]: composer.json
[link-phpunit]: phpunit.xml
[link-gitignore]: .gitignore
[link-editorconfig]: .editorconfig    
[link-travis-yml]: .travis.yml           
[link-scrutinizer]: .scrutinizer.yml  
[link-author]: https://github.com/CodelyTV
[link-contributors]: ../../contributors
